# Cloud-Text-Editor
The Cloud Text Editor is essentially a normal text editor wherein multiple users can use the same application on the same device in order to privately access and work on their text documents. This is achieved through a login system – so a user logs in to their account in order to view and modify their text files. If we’re comparing it with other text editors, we can say that the Cloud Text Editor that we’ve developed is a combination of the layout and features of Notepad or Notepad++ and the cloud-based environment of Google Docs, fusing simplicity with effective storage.
One thing to note, however, is that we’re not actually using a cloud service. We’re not using Google Cloud Platform or Amazon Web Services to make this possible. Instead, what we have done is simulate the working of a cloud service.
The Cloud Text Editor actually does store files locally, but the actual end user does not know that. What happens is that a folder is created for the user based on their email – for example, if their email is test@example.com, then their folder name will be C:\...\testexample, and their files will be stored and retrieved from this specific folder. The user interface on the frontend does not showcase any of this. If a user wants to save or rename or open a file, our custom windows are what appear instead of anything that might indicate we’re using local storage. So, this Cloud Text Editor that we have developed is simulating a potential Cloud Text Editor that we could very well build with the necessary resources from an actual cloud service.
